# Journal entry for 3 January 2020
## What do I intend to-do this week.
- [ ] ~Take a look at dithered images because "ink bleed"~

- [ ] ~Investigate better visualisers.~
  * Also something that is interactive
  * You'll have to use the vector graphics since pdfs like vectors

- [x] If we assume no extra births we can actually cull all collisions
that occur further away than closest grain. Not sure how important
this culling will be to performance (could it be magnitudes better?)
  * Would need to look up what the average "local group" is for a grain.

- [x] Read Existence, Uniqueness, and Algorithmic Computation of General Lilypond
Systems (Heveling & Last, 2005)
  * They claim to have an algorithm (for the basic Lilypond model) that
  takes n^2

## What have I done so far.
* After reading the Heveling & Last (2005) paper I believe I have understood
what their algorithm does.
I will attempt to recreate it in python as my `attempt3`.
  - Using the strategy of only looking at each grains local group the lilypond
  solution can be found in worst case time of n^2. In reality the solution can
  be found much much quicker than that even.

* I've removed some of the other todos since there isn't enough time to
do these. I have also not found a compelling enough reason to look for a
better solution as of yet.

* After implementing their algorithm in Python I was shocked by the small
number of steps needed to develop their solution.

## What do I intend to do the coming week.
* Investigate the performance of my algorithm against Heveling & Last (2005)
in a "natural" setting.
  - Is mine still n^3 in the average case?
  - What kind of performance is the Heveling & Last algorithm seeing in the normal case
  - Both algorithms are currently n^3 worst since I haven't implemented the culling
  of all pairs that are completely impossible.

* The number of global steps needed for 100 points was only 7. Empirically how does
the number of points affect the number of global steps.

## Long term
* Look into extending it to 3D (which shouldn't be that hard)
