# Journal entry for 3 January 2020
## What do I intend to-do this week.
- [x] Investigate the performance of my algorithm against Heveling & Last (2005)
in a "natural" setting.
  - [x] Is mine still n^3 in the average case?
  - [x] What kind of performance is the Heveling & Last algorithm seeing in the normal case
  - Both algorithms are currently n^3 worst since I haven't implemented the culling
  of all pairs that are completely impossible.

- [x] The number of global steps needed for 100 points was only 7. Empirically how does
the number of points affect the number of global steps.

## What have I done so far.
* Even though the `heveling.py` implementation was written in Python it was able
overthrow the C implementation by 1000 grains.
  * Plotting the times we find that my implementation of the algorithm takes
  n^2 time. (Note that I did not provide a speed up that would've reduced the time
  by a factor of n meaning we could've achieved O(n) time)
  * My own algorithm actually did poorer than n^3. I'm sure there's some reason
  for this. (The same speed up could've been implemented in my algorithm which
  would have also reduced the time by a factor of n. So it could've achieved
  O(n^2) time).

* Looking at the data for the number of global steps the Heveling & Last algorith
took. I found that it was actually constant jumping around 7 and 8
thus was not affected by the increasing
number of grains. Perhaps the number of global steps is determined by the maximum
number of grains in a "grain cluster".

## Long term
* Look into extending it to 3D (which shouldn't be that hard)
